# SVD_image_compression
These are some scripts I made to experiment with image compression techniques using singular value decomposition through NumPy. It is primarily for further compressing RAW images to JPG. You can already compress RAW images to jpg, but the main script I have for this (full_compress_raw.py) gives more customization as to how much information should be kept, and thus enables the JPG files produced to be even smaller in size.

I have 4 main scripts. The first is compress.py, which takes in a jpg (or any image format that Pillow supports) and compresses it to an "encoded" pickle file, which is just 3 times the number of channels NumPy arrays (9 arrays for RGB). This is done through SVD. The file raw_compress.py does the same thing but uses RawPy to support RAW images as well. The file decompress.py takes in the SVD "encoded" thing that either compress.py or raw_compress.py will save and save it as a jpg (optional) and shows the compressed one. These 3 scripts have no comments as they are mostly just me messing around with the math and "prototyping". If you have any questions, feel free to email me @ manvikpasula@gmail.com

The main script I have is full_compress_raw.py. This takes in a RAW image file (through RawPy), compresses it using the SVD method, and saves the compressed as a jpg. This means you can compress the image further than a JPG would already do. This code has more comments that describe the approach and algorithm (which is the same in all the scripts), and so it should be used if you are trying to understand what is going on. You can still email me about questions this though.

I decided to use Argparse to run code with "instructions" through the terminal. The main arguments are: --file (path to the image file), --percent (percentage of total singular values sum to keep / how much to compress), --save_encoded (save the "encoded" NumPy arrays), and --show_compressed (show the compressed image once the script is finished with Matplotlib). The following are all in the script full_compress_raw.py, but they appear in a similar fashion for the other scripts. The main difference is that decompress.py uses the --file argument as the path to the Pickle file rather than the image file.
